---
description: Glossary of terms for PipeRider
---

# Terminology

### Assertion

Also known as **Data Quality Assertion**.

A single data test case consisting of a test function and related configuration. Assertions are executed during `piperider run`.

Type of assertion:

* [Built-In Assertions](cli/data-quality-assertions/assertion-configuration.md)
* [Custom assertions](cli/data-quality-assertions/custom-assertions.md)

See [Assertion File](terminology.md#assertion-yaml).

### Assertion file

A YAML file located at `.piperider/assertions/*.yml` that contains the assertion functions to be executed against tables and columns when using `piperider run`.

### Config file

A YAML file located at `.piperider/config.yml` and used for storing project configuration such as available data sources and dbt integration settings. Generated by `piperider init`.

See also [Project Structure](cli/project-structure/).

### Connector

Also known as **data source connector**.

Enables PipeRider to connect to a variety of data sources, such as SQLite, PostgreSQL, Snowflake etc.

Types of connector and data source integrations:

* [Postgress Connector](cli/supported-data-sources/postgres-connector.md)
* [SnowFlake Connector](cli/supported-data-sources/snowflake-connector.md)
* [dbt Integration](cli/dbt-integration/)

### Credentials file

A YAML file located at `.piperider/credentials.yml` that is used for storing credentials used by connectors to connect to data sources.

See also [Project Structure](cli/project-structure/).

### Custom assertion

Users can extend basic assertion with application-or domain-specific expectations to build the customized assertion functions.

See also [Custom Assertions](cli/data-quality-assertions/custom-assertions.md).

### Compare reports

Capability to compare the output of runs in a static HTML page.

See also [Compare Reports](how-to-guides/compare-reports.md).

### Data quality

It is a perception or an assessment of data's fitness to serve its purpose in a given context.

### Data source

Provides a standard API for accessing and interacting with data from a wide variety of source systems, such as SQLite, PostgreSQL, Snowflake etc.

### Profiling run

The act of generating metrics and recommended assertions from a data source. The executions of a run over a time period is to generate profiling results for each run at `.piperider/outputs/`.

See also [Project Structure](cli/project-structure/).

### Recommended Assertion

Recommended assertions are those that are generated by PipeRider under the following circumstances:

* When running `piperider run` and there are no assertion files present in `.piperirder/assertions/`, such as on first use.
* When using the [generate-assertions](cli/piperider-cli.md#generate-assertions) command.

Recommended assertions are assertions containing suggested parameters based on the results of a data [profiling run](terminology.md#profiling-run).

### Report

A static HTML report that is generated by based on the results of a profiling run and is stored in `.piperider/outputs/`.

See also [Project Structure](cli/project-structure/) and [Generate Report](how-to-guides/generate-report.md).
